I want to get into what this workshop
is actually going to be about.
So of course we are going to be talking
about animation principles throughout
the workshop, what you should animate,
what you shouldn't and just some nice
subtle ideas for how to add animation into
your existing websites and applications.
But I also really want to emphasize that
this is a creative workshop, so this
workshop is going to be split into a few
sections starting with the fundamentals
where we're gonna be talking about CSS and
also just different animation principles.
Then we're gonna be going into
transitions, CSS transitions and
then we're gonna be going into
the key frame animations and
then choreographing between
multiple things animating.
And then we're gonna be talking about
states and state transitions and
even state machines and
how those relate to animations and
can help you think better about how you do
different animations on your applications.
We're also gonna be talking
about layout animations,
which is a more advanced topic,
but it's very, very useful.
And then we're going to be talking
about reactive animations.
So this is actually going from
least amount of JavaScript and
least efforts to most amount
of JavaScript and most effort.
With that, this is a creative workshop.
So every lesson that we do, there's going
to be a couple of opportunities for
you to practice each of these techniques.
One of them is going to be in a simple
application where you are showing an email
input and a subscribe button and you
have to just intimate that simple form.
And another one, we're actually going to
be building a sample in flight app for
a fictional front end airlines.
And in that app, there's a lot of
opportunities for you to animate.
So the goal of each of these
sections in lessons is for
you to actually apply these techniques
in whichever way that you want.
So there's no right or wrong answers.
It's just about, can I use this technique
to achieve whatever effect that I want?
And so my main goal in this workshop is
to provide you all the techniques for
you to bring your user interfaces to life.
So that you can know, okay,
if I want to add a transition here or
add an animation there,
I know exactly how to do it using CSS.
Or even if I want to add an interactive or
a reactive animation, I could do so
in JavaScript before adding any libraries.
So that's the thing too.
We're not going to be using any
libraries in this workshop.
We're going to be using plain JavaScript.
In fact, we're gonna be putting it
in the script tag in our index, so
our index.html page.
So we're going really,
really old school here, but the reason for
that is because it should not matter
which framework you're using,
which libraries you're using,
the same principles are going to apply.
And you could use the techniques that you
learned in this workshop in pretty much
any framework or even no framework at all.
For CSS, we are actually in this workshop
going to be using a pre-processor
called SAS, and
we're going to be using the SCSS variance.
Now, if you don't know SAS,
then don't worry.
The SCSS variance is completely
compatible with the CSS.
So if you don't know some of
the helpful things that SCSS provides,
just write normal CSS and
it's going to work exactly the same.
So, no worries about that.
And if we have time at the end of
the workshop, we're actually going to
be doing what I've done with the key
framers that we'd been doing for
a few years,
which I'm going to be taking a dribble.
And we could work on this together,
but we're going to be creating it and
creating that animation
completely from scratch.
So much from scratch that I
had not even prepared it,
I wrote zero HTML,
zero CSS, zero JavaScript.
And we're just going to
try to do it at the end.
So it's gonna be a nice fun exercise.
And we'll see if we could do it.
And so this is going to give you an idea
of what it's like to take an animation
from scratch and actually implementing
it with all of the bumps in the road and
all of the struggles and
of course the reward of actually getting
the animation working at the end.
So again, the workshop is at
github.com/davidkpiano/frontend-masters--
css.
And once you get this installed,
all you have to do is run npm run dev or
yarn dev.
And so, that's going to spin
up local host at port 3000 and
that's where you could see this.
And so this is the index page.
In the index page,
actually there's not much of anything.
There's just basic HTML, and
there's also this little
ball here that I made.
There's some styling for this page, but
the reason I'm pointing this page out
to you is because I actually want you
to use this page as your scratchpad.
So if you want to try anything
out with CSS animations or
a little bit of JavaScript, or
even something with this ball and
getting it to animate, this is the page
that we're going to be using for that.